Peter Sadosky
Mentor: Anthony
04/14/2015

There are number of tools online for recommending restaurants:

1) Google search
When you type in 'chinese food' for example, Google displays a number of
restaurants that try to fit your criteria. Google seems to base their 
recommendations on a mix of location (close to you) and high average rating
by their users. From the results, you can find the location, directions,
phone number, and any other pertinent information.

Room for improvement:
Google doesn't seem to take into account your restaurant history or other
preferences, as it just knows that you typed in a certain food. So there
is no prior history to draw from. If you went to How Lee, for example from my
'chinese food' search as the top result and didn't like it, then it will still 
recommend it the next type you search.

2) OpenTable
When you search for a type of food on opentable, it will give a number of
restaurants that fit your criteria. I couldn't find this online, as I imagine
opentable wants to keep it a secret, but it seems possible that opentable
can keep track of your restaurant history based on where you've reserved before,
and then build a more accurate recommendation from there. Last year,
Opentable bought Ness, which was a restaurant recommendation app, to help
build their work-in-progress recommendation tools.

Room for improvement:
Doesn't give single recommendations, so you still have to pick from a big list,
and so doesn't alleviate problems of people finding it hard to pick a
restaurant to go to for dinner.

3) Sosh
Sosh is a lifestyle app for the phone, and aims to give curated recommendations
for cool restaurants and other things happening in the city you're in. So they
find 20 good restaurants, and suggest their users go to those. They build a
preferences history, as users can rate how much they liked those suggestions.

Room for improvement:
Doesn't give single recommendations, doesn't draw from total pool of restaurants
in a city. All recommendations are hand-done by Sosh employees, so things
can't update automatically or generate very quickly.

4) Nara
Nara is a recommendation engine for restaurants. Users can build a profile of
thumbs-up, thumbs-down for restaurants anywhere, and it will start to learn
a user's preferences. This is probably the tool most like the one I want to
make.

Room for improvement:
Only allows for binary (thumbs up, down) decisions, rather than a continuous
or at least ordered scale of preferences.

Some other tools are here:
http://readwrite.com/2010/09/27/hungry_the_state_of_food_recommendation_engines

They include recipe recommendations and other tools related to food.






